# 3) Starting on ???

## New idea: GROW

Prompted by my new aim to create a mobile game, I have a new idea - rather than making a physics-based game, I could make one of those cute, small, toy-like puzzle games where you do one little thing after another. I remember one of them was like an RPG where you move your hero around the map to becomes stronger and there was a sword, a shield, health, and a dragon. You had to do all the things in the right order to win.

I found it! They were called the GROW games by On Nakayama. That type of game is nice and short and would work great on mobile. They're perfect because I could have html buttons on the sides of the screen and do all the animations on the canvas. Though, I'm hesitant because I don't think my animation skills are up to snuff yet.

I'm running around and procrastinating because I don't feel like my animation will look good, but I have 27 days until Christmas Eve and I get in at least 1.5 hours in every day, so I have 40 hours to get this out. Drawing a birthday card has taken me about 2 hours in the past, so that's enough time for 20 scenes, or 160 small drawings, or 20 small animations. I think it's possible. Even still, it seems that I feel a little apprehensive when challenging anything but pure programming project. I'm all jittery.

The game will save "your ending" using local storage and I'll ask my family which endings they got. As a stretch goal, I could add analytics to figure out which endings people are getting.

Initial path ideas:

- Grow a Christmas tree
  - Needs to grow so that Santa can place presents underneath it
  - You need to water the Christmas tree or else the tree will catch on fire
- Set up a fireplace
  - Needs to grow so that stockings can be put on the fireplace
- Leave out cookies
  - If you don't, you're a bad kid and you get coal

Are these endings a little too harsh for my younger niece? How old is she anyways? She's in elementary school, so it's probably fine. I think the coal is an unnecessary downer.

Do I want to put all of the items at once or two at a time?

- All at once
  - n! paths - this feels like too many paths
  - Less than n! animations - each item has X stages of growth
    - People exploring all the options will view repeat animations
  - More personalized endings
  - I can just reveal the "correct" ending after the first attempt
- Two at a time
  - Less than 2^m paths - I can make dead ends
  - Probably the same number of animations as paths - otherwise there would be no point checking out alternative paths
  - Less personalized endings
  - The "correct" ending is more obvious

Let's have multiple good endings.

- Cookies vs gingerbread
- Candles vs stockings
- Christmas tree circles or candy canes
- Christmas tree angel or star

The minimum viable product is literally just the final image, so I should get started on that. After that, the animations to make the final image. After that is the game.

## Commits

- Add empty test gallery

  I like the idea of having a test gallery where I can both verify the physics look correct and demo the physics to other people at the same time.

- Add pre-commit hook

  https://prettier.io/docs/en/precommit.html

  https://benmccormick.org/2017/02/26/running-jest-tests-before-each-git-commit/

  It's easy to forget to lint and format before committing and I don't really want to worry about style while coding, so I added a pre-commit hook that would automatically do those steps.

  Additionally, while I constantly run `npm run test -- --watch`, I often make multiple changes at a time and I only commit a portion of the changes. By adding jest to pre-commit, I can test only the files I'm committing.

- (Canceled commit) Draw

  [This tutorial](https://medium.com/@pdx.lucasm/canvas-with-react-js-32e133c05258) by Lucas Miranda demonstrates how to run the canvas animation loop inside of useEffect, but the article brought up two interesting questions. First, should the animation loop be inside of useEffect? And should I make my game for iPhone or PC?

  [Stack and Smash](https://github.com/jarett-lee/stack-and-smash) was a game I made that used canvas and it worked moderately well on iPhone. Nicky Case, a game creator I admire, used HTML and sprites for his [Coming Out Sim](https://ncase.itch.io/coming-out-simulator-2014) and it works great on mobile.

[Previous page](./2020-11-26.md) | Next page
